[Below are what I think are the relevant parts of the following opinion:

http://www.rabbinicalassembly.org/sites/default/files/public/halakhah/teshuvot/2011-2020/electrical-electronic-devices-shabbat.pdf

This opinion is mentioned in another answer, but the relevant parts (other than a page number) are not indicated.]

What about the use of electronic paper in the e-readers which have
recently become popular? The technology is quite remarkable—it is
still evolving but has already penetrated the market and is likely to
expand further, eventually reducing the need for printed materials
[158]. If our concerns about writing to digital memory could be
addressed by disabling network functions [159], it remains the case
that each fresh page view effectively creates a new image which is
durable. Within the electronic paper are microcapsules which are
arranged by electrical charge to display pigment and form an
image. This image endures even without any refreshing of the
display. E-ink is a stable form of writing and would therefore appear
to be biblically forbidden as *toledat koteiv*.

Nevertheless, most current e-readers are set automatically to erase
the written image after a brief period of inactivity, either by
darkening the screen or by displaying a stock image in place of the
written text [160]. If so, then the creation of a screen-view does not
meet the halakhic standard of liability seen above in Tosefta Shabbat
11:8 of “writing something with a durable substance on a durable
surface.” The status of creating a screen-view which will auto-erase
after a few minutes would be that of פטור אבל אסור, exempt from full
liability for the biblical *melakhah*, but still forbidden by rabbinic
decree, much as writing in sand on Shabbat is rabbinically banned.

The use of e-readers on Shabbat raises additional halakhic
problems. Beyond displaying text, they also provide users with the
ability to record notes and to download additional content. Both of
these activities are forbidden under the biblical category of *toledat
koteiv*, a derivative form of writing. Purchasing content would also
violate the *shvut* ban on commerce discussed below in Section II. Many
e-readers are really tablet computers with full functionality and can
quickly lead the user away from passive reading and into active
writing and the creation of new content. True, one could say the same
of reading a paper book—the passive activity of reading can lead to
using a pencil or highlighter to mark the book, and therefore to
violation of Shabbat. Yet this distinction is more sustainable since
marking up a paper book is frequently impermissible—if the book is
borrowed from another person or a library, for example—and writing in
the book requires a separate tool. In contrast, computers use the same
input devices (keyboard, trackpad and mouse etc.) for reading and
writing and these markings are easily removed and considered
inconsequential, thus making the distinction unsustainable. *For all
of these reasons it seems that the use of e-readers as currently
configured is not permitted on Shabbat* [161]. We will discuss
possible accommodations for disabled users in Section III.

[...]

Returning to our topic of electricity, the obligation of *shvut*, to
rest on Shabbat, has multiple applications. If the use of a particular
electrical appliance or electronic device does not involve *melakhah*,
one still must ask whether it could expose one to the risk of
performing *melakhah*. For example, some e-readers may be used in a
“read-only” manner in which images are displayed in a transient
fashion which would not be deemed “writing.” Nevertheless, the normal
operation of these devices is to follow links to download new content,
whether free or for a fee, thus leading to both *melakhah* (*toldat
koteiv*) and violation of *shvut*. Moreover, the device tracks one’s
usage and stores information such as the current page view so that
when the reader returns it will be easy to resume reading. Each of
these objections could arguably be addressed, and in this way allow
for the reading of content on Shabbat which would otherwise be
inaccessible. At this point it appears to us that the border between
permitted and prohibited activity with e-readers remains impossible to
articulate, leaving the operation of such devices in the middle
category of פטור אבל אסור, exempt from liability but still forbidden
absent a competing value as described below [191].

[...]

Returning to the subject of e-readers, as we have seen above the use
of these devices on Shabbat is problematic on many levels. Downloading
new content and making notations are biblically prohibited activities
under the category of *toledat koteiv*, derivative forms of
writing. Purchasing new content is additionally forbidden by the
rabbis under the rubric of *shvut*. Using e-readers to display new
screen views which are transient in that they automatically shut off
after a few minutes of inactivity would not be biblically prohibited
but would be banned rabbinically as *toldat koteiv d’rabbanan*.
*However, if such an e-reader had its network functions disabled and
were used to display text in a temporary fashion (thus reducing the
prohibition of writing to the rabbinic level of כותב דרבנן) for the
sake of a visually disabled person who had no other way to read, we
would override the rabbinic level prohibitions in deference to כבוד
הבריות, the demands of human dignity*.

[...]

The principle of בל תשחית, conserving natural resources, indicates
that we should indeed turn off unneeded appliances on Shabbat.

This principle may also be applied to the use of e-readers, since
purchasing or borrowing books in electronic form avoids many wasteful
activities such as producing paper, printing, transporting and storing
the finished product. Some reading materials may be accessible only in
digital form. For these reasons there is a positive motivation to use
e-readers on Shabbat which could arguably justify the relaxation of
certain shvut concerns. Nevertheless, as discussed above, the current
generation of e-readers and tablets include many applications which
record data in a way which we understand to be biblically forbidden as
writing. Indeed, these devices are becoming more fully featured and
networked with each generation. A Shabbat-observant Jew who wishes to
use an e-reader would need to address all concerns of data
downloading, recording and display lest s/he violate fundamental
principles of Shabbat law.

[...]

[159]. For such a suggestion see Rabbi Gil Student’s blog,
http://torahmusings.com/2010/12/e-readers-and-shabbos/.

[160]. The current generation of Kindle typically replaces the text
screen with a stock photo after five minutes of inactivity.

[161]. This finding would apply to the current market leaders, Apple’s
iPad and Amazon’s Kindle, as well as similar products.

[...]

[191]. For a similar example, electric carts and cars do not involve
combustion, and indeed may not directly involve any form of
*melakhah*. Yet their operation can lead to the need for maintenance,
and may facilitate carrying in a public domain and traveling beyond
the Sabbath limits (such concerns are far greater with an electric car
than with a wheelchair). Operators may be required to carry a license
and to engage in commercial activity as part of the operation, which
involves the third category of *shvut* listed above. All of these
concerns would argue for a rabbinic ban on the use of electrical
vehicles as שבות under the rubric of גזירה שמא, a protection against violating Shabbat
unless a countervailing halakhic imperative such as human dignity
supersedes them, as discussed below. Those who accept the 1950 CJLS
minority position permitting people to drive to synagogue in a gas
powered car would be justified extending this permission to electric
cars.